README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4060187/61057426-4e5a4600-a3c3-11e9-9114-630743e05814.png" width="211" height="182" alt="Formik.js" />
</p>

<h3 align="center">
  Build forms in React, without the tears.
</h3>

<br>

[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/jaredpalmer/formik.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/jaredpalmer/formik)
[![Stable Release](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/formik.svg)](https://npm.im/formik)
[![Blazing Fast](https://badgen.now.sh/badge/speed/blazing%20%F0%9F%94%A5/green)](https://npm.im/formik)
[![gzip size](http://img.badgesize.io/https://unpkg.com/formik@latest/dist/formik.umd.production.js?compression=gzip)](https://unpkg.com/formik@latest/dist/formik.umd.production.js)
[![license](https://badgen.now.sh/badge/license/MIT)](./LICENSE)
[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/102860784329052160.svg?style=flat-square)](https://discord.gg/cU6MCve)
[![Join the community on Spectrum](https://withspectrum.github.io/badge/badge.svg)](https://spectrum.chat/palmer)

**Visit [https://jaredpalmer.com/formik/](https://jaredpalmer.com/formik/) to get started with Formik.**

---

**The below readme is the documentation for the `next` (prerelease) version of Formik. To view the documentation for the latest stable Formik version visit [jaredpalmer.com/formik/docs](https://jaredpalmer.com/formik/docs/overview)**

---

Let's face it, forms are really verbose in
[React](https://github.com/facebook/react). To make matters worse, most form
helpers do wayyyy too much magic and often have a significant performance cost
associated with them. Formik is a small library that helps you with the 3 most
annoying parts:

1.  Getting values in and out of form state
2.  Validation and error messages
3.  Handling form submission

By colocating all of the above in one place, Formik will keep things
organized--making testing, refactoring, and reasoning about your forms a breeze.

<div id="handleblur-e-any--void"></div>
<div id="handlechange-e-any--void"></div>

## Docs

- [Get Started](https://jaredpalmer.com/formik/docs/overview)
- [API Reference](https://jaredpalmer.com/formik/docs/api/formik)
- [Articles / Tutorials](https://jaredpalmer.com/formik/docs/resources)
- [Get Help](https://jaredpalmer.com/formik/help)
- [Release Notes](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/releases)

## In-browser Playgrounds

You can play with Formik in your web browser with these live online playgrounds.

- CodeSandbox (ReactDOM) https://codesandbox.io/s/zKrK5YLDZ
- Expo Snack (React Native) https://snack.expo.io/@jaredpalmer/basic-formik-x-react-native-example

## Examples

- [Basics](https://codesandbox.io/s/zKrK5YLDZ)
- [Sync Validation](https://codesandbox.io/s/q8yRqQMp)
- [Building your own input primitives](https://codesandbox.io/s/qJR4ykJk)
- Working with 3rd-party inputs:
  - [react-select-v1](https://codesandbox.io/s/jRzE53pqR)
  - [react-select-v2](https://codesandbox.io/s/73jj9zom96)
  - [Draft.js](https://codesandbox.io/s/QW1rqjBLl)
- [Accessing React lifecycle functions](https://codesandbox.io/s/pgD4DLypy)
- [React Native](https://snack.expo.io/@ferrannp/react-native-x-formik)
- [TypeScript](https://codesandbox.io/s/8y578o8152)
- [Handling API Errors](https://codesandbox.io/s/nw193yq32l)

## Organizations and projects using Formik

[List of organizations and projects using Formik](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/issues/87)

## Authors

- Jared Palmer [@jaredpalmer](https://twitter.com/jaredpalmer)
- Ian White [@eonwhite](https://twitter.com/eonwhite)

## Contributors

Formik is made with <3 thanks to these wonderful people
([emoji key](https://github.com/kentcdodds/all-contributors#emoji-key)):

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:START - Do not remove or modify this section -->
<!-- prettier-ignore -->
| [<img src="https://avatars2.githubusercontent.com/u/4060187?v=4" width="100px;"/><br /><sub><b>Jared Palmer</b></sub>](http://jaredpalmer.com)<br />[💬](#question-jaredpalmer "Answering Questions") [💻](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/commits?author=jaredpalmer "Code") [🎨](#design-jaredpalmer "Design") [📖](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/commits?author=jaredpalmer "Documentation") [💡](#example-jaredpalmer "Examples") [🤔](#ideas-jaredpalmer "Ideas, Planning, & Feedback") [👀](#review-jaredpalmer "Reviewed Pull Requests") [⚠️](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/commits?author=jaredpalmer "Tests") | [<img src="https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/109324?v=4" width="100px;"/><br /><sub><b>Ian White</b></sub>](https://www.stardog.io)<br />[💬](#question-eonwhite "Answering Questions") [🐛](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/issues?q=author%3Aeonwhite "Bug reports") [💻](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/commits?author=eonwhite "Code") [📖](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/commits?author=eonwhite "Documentation") [🤔](#ideas-eonwhite "Ideas, Planning, & Feedback") [👀](#review-eonwhite "Reviewed Pull Requests") | [<img src="https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/829963?v=4" width="100px;"/><br /><sub><b>Andrej Badin</b></sub>](http://andrejbadin.com)<br />[💬](#question-Andreyco "Answering Questions") [🐛](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/issues?q=author%3AAndreyco "Bug reports") [📖](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/commits?author=Andreyco "Documentation") | [<img src="https://avatars2.githubusercontent.com/u/91115?v=4" width="100px;"/><br /><sub><b>Adam Howard</b></sub>](http://adz.co.de)<br />[💬](#question-skattyadz "Answering Questions") [🐛](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/issues?q=author%3Askattyadz "Bug reports") [🤔](#ideas-skattyadz "Ideas, Planning, & Feedback") [👀](#review-skattyadz "Reviewed Pull Requests") | [<img src="https://avatars1.githubusercontent.com/u/6711845?v=4" width="100px;"/><br /><sub><b>Vlad Shcherbin</b></sub>](https://github.com/VladShcherbin)<br />[💬](#question-VladShcherbin "Answering Questions") [🐛](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/issues?q=author%3AVladShcherbin "Bug reports") [🤔](#ideas-VladShcherbin "Ideas, Planning, & Feedback") | [<img src="https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/u/383212?v=4" width="100px;"/><br /><sub><b>Brikou CARRE</b></sub>](https://github.com/brikou)<br />[🐛](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/issues?q=author%3Abrikou "Bug reports") [📖](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/commits?author=brikou "Documentation") | [<img src="https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/5314713?v=4" width="100px;"/><br /><sub><b>Sam Kvale</b></sub>](http://skvale.github.io)<br />[🐛](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/issues?q=author%3Askvale "Bug reports") [💻](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/commits?author=skvale "Code") [⚠️](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/commits?author=skvale "Tests") |
| :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| [<img src="https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/13765558?v=4" width="100px;"/><br /><sub><b>Jon Tansey</b></sub>](http://jon.tansey.info)<br />[🐛](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/issues?q=author%3Ajontansey "Bug reports") [💻](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/commits?author=jontansey "Code") | [<img src="https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/6819171?v=4" width="100px;"/><br /><sub><b>Tyler Martinez</b></sub>](http://slightlytyler.com)<br />[🐛](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/issues?q=author%3Aslightlytyler "Bug reports") [📖](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/commits?author=slightlytyler "Documentation") | [<img src="https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/1285032?v=4" width="100px;"/><br /><sub><b>Tobias Lohse</b></sub>](http://MrLoh.se)<br />[🐛](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/issues?q=author%3AMrLoh "Bug reports") [💻](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/commits?author=MrLoh "Code") |

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:END -->

This project follows the
[all-contributors](https://github.com/kentcdodds/all-contributors)
specification. Contributions of any kind welcome!

---

[MIT License.](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/blob/master/LICENSE)

---

Commit message:

Add Related section with mention of TSDX (#1709)

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4060187/61057426-4e5a4600-a3c3-11e9-9114-630743e05814.png" width="211" height="182" alt="Formik.js" />
</p>

<h3 align="center">
  Build forms in React, without the tears.
</h3>

<br>

[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/jaredpalmer/formik.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/jaredpalmer/formik)
[![Stable Release](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/formik.svg)](https://npm.im/formik)
[![Blazing Fast](https://badgen.now.sh/badge/speed/blazing%20%F0%9F%94%A5/green)](https://npm.im/formik)
[![gzip size](http://img.badgesize.io/https://unpkg.com/formik@latest/dist/formik.umd.production.js?compression=gzip)](https://unpkg.com/formik@latest/dist/formik.umd.production.js)
[![license](https://badgen.now.sh/badge/license/MIT)](./LICENSE)
[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/102860784329052160.svg?style=flat-square)](https://discord.gg/cU6MCve)
[![Join the community on Spectrum](https://withspectrum.github.io/badge/badge.svg)](https://spectrum.chat/palmer)

**Visit [https://jaredpalmer.com/formik/](https://jaredpalmer.com/formik/) to get started with Formik.**

---

**The below readme is the documentation for the `next` (prerelease) version of Formik. To view the documentation for the latest stable Formik version visit [jaredpalmer.com/formik/docs](https://jaredpalmer.com/formik/docs/overview)**

---

Let's face it, forms are really verbose in
[React](https://github.com/facebook/react). To make matters worse, most form
helpers do wayyyy too much magic and often have a significant performance cost
associated with them. Formik is a small library that helps you with the 3 most
annoying parts:

1.  Getting values in and out of form state
2.  Validation and error messages
3.  Handling form submission

By colocating all of the above in one place, Formik will keep things
organized--making testing, refactoring, and reasoning about your forms a breeze.

<div id="handleblur-e-any--void"></div>
<div id="handlechange-e-any--void"></div>

## Docs

- [Get Started](https://jaredpalmer.com/formik/docs/overview)
- [API Reference](https://jaredpalmer.com/formik/docs/api/formik)
- [Articles / Tutorials](https://jaredpalmer.com/formik/docs/resources)
- [Get Help](https://jaredpalmer.com/formik/help)
- [Release Notes](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/releases)

## In-browser Playgrounds

You can play with Formik in your web browser with these live online playgrounds.

- CodeSandbox (ReactDOM) https://codesandbox.io/s/zKrK5YLDZ
- Expo Snack (React Native) https://snack.expo.io/@jaredpalmer/basic-formik-x-react-native-example

## Examples

- [Basics](https://codesandbox.io/s/zKrK5YLDZ)
- [Sync Validation](https://codesandbox.io/s/q8yRqQMp)
- [Building your own input primitives](https://codesandbox.io/s/qJR4ykJk)
- Working with 3rd-party inputs:
  - [react-select-v1](https://codesandbox.io/s/jRzE53pqR)
  - [react-select-v2](https://codesandbox.io/s/73jj9zom96)
  - [Draft.js](https://codesandbox.io/s/QW1rqjBLl)
- [Accessing React lifecycle functions](https://codesandbox.io/s/pgD4DLypy)
- [React Native](https://snack.expo.io/@ferrannp/react-native-x-formik)
- [TypeScript](https://codesandbox.io/s/8y578o8152)
- [Handling API Errors](https://codesandbox.io/s/nw193yq32l)

## Organizations and projects using Formik

[List of organizations and projects using Formik](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/issues/87)

## Authors

- Jared Palmer [@jaredpalmer](https://twitter.com/jaredpalmer)
- Ian White [@eonwhite](https://twitter.com/eonwhite)

## Contributors

Formik is made with <3 thanks to these wonderful people
([emoji key](https://github.com/kentcdodds/all-contributors#emoji-key)):

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:START - Do not remove or modify this section -->
<!-- prettier-ignore -->
| [<img src="https://avatars2.githubusercontent.com/u/4060187?v=4" width="100px;"/><br /><sub><b>Jared Palmer</b></sub>](http://jaredpalmer.com)<br />[💬](#question-jaredpalmer "Answering Questions") [💻](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/commits?author=jaredpalmer "Code") [🎨](#design-jaredpalmer "Design") [📖](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/commits?author=jaredpalmer "Documentation") [💡](#example-jaredpalmer "Examples") [🤔](#ideas-jaredpalmer "Ideas, Planning, & Feedback") [👀](#review-jaredpalmer "Reviewed Pull Requests") [⚠️](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/commits?author=jaredpalmer "Tests") | [<img src="https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/109324?v=4" width="100px;"/><br /><sub><b>Ian White</b></sub>](https://www.stardog.io)<br />[💬](#question-eonwhite "Answering Questions") [🐛](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/issues?q=author%3Aeonwhite "Bug reports") [💻](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/commits?author=eonwhite "Code") [📖](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/commits?author=eonwhite "Documentation") [🤔](#ideas-eonwhite "Ideas, Planning, & Feedback") [👀](#review-eonwhite "Reviewed Pull Requests") | [<img src="https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/829963?v=4" width="100px;"/><br /><sub><b>Andrej Badin</b></sub>](http://andrejbadin.com)<br />[💬](#question-Andreyco "Answering Questions") [🐛](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/issues?q=author%3AAndreyco "Bug reports") [📖](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/commits?author=Andreyco "Documentation") | [<img src="https://avatars2.githubusercontent.com/u/91115?v=4" width="100px;"/><br /><sub><b>Adam Howard</b></sub>](http://adz.co.de)<br />[💬](#question-skattyadz "Answering Questions") [🐛](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/issues?q=author%3Askattyadz "Bug reports") [🤔](#ideas-skattyadz "Ideas, Planning, & Feedback") [👀](#review-skattyadz "Reviewed Pull Requests") | [<img src="https://avatars1.githubusercontent.com/u/6711845?v=4" width="100px;"/><br /><sub><b>Vlad Shcherbin</b></sub>](https://github.com/VladShcherbin)<br />[💬](#question-VladShcherbin "Answering Questions") [🐛](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/issues?q=author%3AVladShcherbin "Bug reports") [🤔](#ideas-VladShcherbin "Ideas, Planning, & Feedback") | [<img src="https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/u/383212?v=4" width="100px;"/><br /><sub><b>Brikou CARRE</b></sub>](https://github.com/brikou)<br />[🐛](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/issues?q=author%3Abrikou "Bug reports") [📖](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/commits?author=brikou "Documentation") | [<img src="https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/5314713?v=4" width="100px;"/><br /><sub><b>Sam Kvale</b></sub>](http://skvale.github.io)<br />[🐛](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/issues?q=author%3Askvale "Bug reports") [💻](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/commits?author=skvale "Code") [⚠️](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/commits?author=skvale "Tests") |
| :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| [<img src="https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/13765558?v=4" width="100px;"/><br /><sub><b>Jon Tansey</b></sub>](http://jon.tansey.info)<br />[🐛](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/issues?q=author%3Ajontansey "Bug reports") [💻](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/commits?author=jontansey "Code") | [<img src="https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/6819171?v=4" width="100px;"/><br /><sub><b>Tyler Martinez</b></sub>](http://slightlytyler.com)<br />[🐛](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/issues?q=author%3Aslightlytyler "Bug reports") [📖](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/commits?author=slightlytyler "Documentation") | [<img src="https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/1285032?v=4" width="100px;"/><br /><sub><b>Tobias Lohse</b></sub>](http://MrLoh.se)<br />[🐛](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/issues?q=author%3AMrLoh "Bug reports") [💻](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/commits?author=MrLoh "Code") |

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:END -->

This project follows the
[all-contributors](https://github.com/kentcdodds/all-contributors)
specification. Contributions of any kind welcome!

## Related

- [TSDX](https://github.com/palmerhq/tsdx) - Zero-config CLI for TypeScript used by this repo.

---

[MIT License.](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/blob/master/LICENSE)

---
