packages/formik/README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4060187/61057426-4e5a4600-a3c3-11e9-9114-630743e05814.png" width="211" height="182" alt="Formik.js" />
</p>

<h3 align="center">
  Build forms in React, without the tears.
</h3>

<br>

[![Stable Release](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/formik.svg)](https://npm.im/formik)
[![Blazing Fast](https://badgen.now.sh/badge/speed/blazing%20%F0%9F%94%A5/green)](https://npm.im/formik)
[![gzip size](http://img.badgesize.io/https://unpkg.com/formik@latest/dist/formik.esm.js?compression=gzip)](https://unpkg.com/formik@latest/dist/formik.esm.js)
[![license](https://badgen.now.sh/badge/license/Apache-2.0)](./LICENSE)
[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/769256827007139912.svg?style=flat-square)](https://discord.gg/pJSg287)

**Visit [https://formik.org](https://formik.org) to get started with Formik.**

## Organizations and projects using Formik

[List of organizations and projects using Formik](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/issues/87)

## Authors

- Jared Palmer [@jaredpalmer](https://twitter.com/jaredpalmer)
- Ian White [@eonwhite](https://twitter.com/eonwhite)

## Contributors

Formik is made with <3 thanks to these wonderful people
([emoji key](https://github.com/kentcdodds/all-contributors#emoji-key)):

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:START - Do not remove or modify this section -->
<!-- prettier-ignore -->
| [<img src="https://avatars2.githubusercontent.com/u/4060187?v=4" width="100px;"/><br /><sub><b>Jared Palmer</b></sub>](http://jaredpalmer.com)<br />[💬](#question-jaredpalmer "Answering Questions") [💻](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/commits?author=jaredpalmer "Code") [🎨](#design-jaredpalmer "Design") [📖](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/commits?author=jaredpalmer "Documentation") [💡](#example-jaredpalmer "Examples") [🤔](#ideas-jaredpalmer "Ideas, Planning, & Feedback") [👀](#review-jaredpalmer "Reviewed Pull Requests") [⚠️](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/commits?author=jaredpalmer "Tests") | [<img src="https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/109324?v=4" width="100px;"/><br /><sub><b>Ian White</b></sub>](https://www.stardog.io)<br />[💬](#question-eonwhite "Answering Questions") [🐛](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/issues?q=author%3Aeonwhite "Bug reports") [💻](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/commits?author=eonwhite "Code") [📖](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/commits?author=eonwhite "Documentation") [🤔](#ideas-eonwhite "Ideas, Planning, & Feedback") [👀](#review-eonwhite "Reviewed Pull Requests") | [<img src="https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/829963?v=4" width="100px;"/><br /><sub><b>Andrej Badin</b></sub>](http://andrejbadin.com)<br />[💬](#question-Andreyco "Answering Questions") [🐛](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/issues?q=author%3AAndreyco "Bug reports") [📖](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/commits?author=Andreyco "Documentation") | [<img src="https://avatars2.githubusercontent.com/u/91115?v=4" width="100px;"/><br /><sub><b>Adam Howard</b></sub>](http://adz.co.de)<br />[💬](#question-skattyadz "Answering Questions") [🐛](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/issues?q=author%3Askattyadz "Bug reports") [🤔](#ideas-skattyadz "Ideas, Planning, & Feedback") [👀](#review-skattyadz "Reviewed Pull Requests") | [<img src="https://avatars1.githubusercontent.com/u/6711845?v=4" width="100px;"/><br /><sub><b>Vlad Shcherbin</b></sub>](https://github.com/VladShcherbin)<br />[💬](#question-VladShcherbin "Answering Questions") [🐛](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/issues?q=author%3AVladShcherbin "Bug reports") [🤔](#ideas-VladShcherbin "Ideas, Planning, & Feedback") | [<img src="https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/u/383212?v=4" width="100px;"/><br /><sub><b>Brikou CARRE</b></sub>](https://github.com/brikou)<br />[🐛](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/issues?q=author%3Abrikou "Bug reports") [📖](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/commits?author=brikou "Documentation") | [<img src="https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/5314713?v=4" width="100px;"/><br /><sub><b>Sam Kvale</b></sub>](http://skvale.github.io)<br />[🐛](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/issues?q=author%3Askvale "Bug reports") [💻](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/commits?author=skvale "Code") [⚠️](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/commits?author=skvale "Tests") |
| :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| [<img src="https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/13765558?v=4" width="100px;"/><br /><sub><b>Jon Tansey</b></sub>](http://jon.tansey.info)<br />[🐛](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/issues?q=author%3Ajontansey "Bug reports") [💻](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/commits?author=jontansey "Code") | [<img src="https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/6819171?v=4" width="100px;"/><br /><sub><b>Tyler Martinez</b></sub>](http://slightlytyler.com)<br />[🐛](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/issues?q=author%3Aslightlytyler "Bug reports") [📖](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/commits?author=slightlytyler "Documentation") | [<img src="https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/1285032?v=4" width="100px;"/><br /><sub><b>Tobias Lohse</b></sub>](http://MrLoh.se)<br />[🐛](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/issues?q=author%3AMrLoh "Bug reports") [💻](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/commits?author=MrLoh "Code") |

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:END -->

This project follows the
[all-contributors](https://github.com/kentcdodds/all-contributors)
specification. Contributions of any kind welcome!

## Related

- [TSDX](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/tsdx) - Zero-config CLI for TypeScript used by this repo. (Formik's Rollup configuration as a CLI)

---

[Apache 2.0 License.](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/blob/master/LICENSE)

Commit message:

followup from prior releases (#3813)
* chore: add short contributor guide

* revert: "perf(FieldArray): add shouldComponentUpdate to cut down on unnecessary renders (#3784)"

Unfortunately this change introduced some unwanted behavior in
deeply-composed JSX that relied on state other than that provided
by Formik.

This reverts commit 22e236ed8035c7c5824232202c8ce52193338d5a.

* chore: fix playwright and update workflows

* chore: try a different fix

* chore: ignore webkit for now

* chore: add changeset for revert

packages/formik/README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4060187/61057426-4e5a4600-a3c3-11e9-9114-630743e05814.png" width="211" height="182" alt="Formik.js" />
</p>

<h3 align="center">
  Build forms in React, without the tears.
</h3>

<br>

[![Stable Release](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/formik.svg)](https://npm.im/formik)
[![Blazing Fast](https://badgen.now.sh/badge/speed/blazing%20%F0%9F%94%A5/green)](https://npm.im/formik)
[![gzip size](http://img.badgesize.io/https://unpkg.com/formik@latest/dist/formik.esm.js?compression=gzip)](https://unpkg.com/formik@latest/dist/formik.esm.js)
[![license](https://badgen.now.sh/badge/license/Apache-2.0)](./LICENSE)
[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/769256827007139912.svg?style=flat-square)](https://discord.gg/pJSg287)

**Visit [https://formik.org](https://formik.org) to get started with Formik.**

## Organizations and projects using Formik

[List of organizations and projects using Formik](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/issues/87)

## Authors

- Jared Palmer [@jaredpalmer](https://twitter.com/jaredpalmer)
- Ian White [@eonwhite](https://twitter.com/eonwhite)

## Contributing

This monorepo uses `yarn`, so to start you'll need the package manager installed.

To run E2E tests you'll also need Playwright set up, which can be done locally via `npx playwright install`. Afterward, run `yarn start:app` and in a separate tab run `yarn e2e:ui` to boot up the test runner.

When you're done with your changes, we use [changesets](https://github.com/changesets/changesets) to manage release notes. Run `yarn changeset` to autogenerate notes to be appended to your pull request.

Thank you!

## Contributors

Formik is made with <3 thanks to these wonderful people
([emoji key](https://github.com/kentcdodds/all-contributors#emoji-key)):

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:START - Do not remove or modify this section -->
<!-- prettier-ignore -->
| [<img src="https://avatars2.githubusercontent.com/u/4060187?v=4" width="100px;"/><br /><sub><b>Jared Palmer</b></sub>](http://jaredpalmer.com)<br />[💬](#question-jaredpalmer "Answering Questions") [💻](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/commits?author=jaredpalmer "Code") [🎨](#design-jaredpalmer "Design") [📖](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/commits?author=jaredpalmer "Documentation") [💡](#example-jaredpalmer "Examples") [🤔](#ideas-jaredpalmer "Ideas, Planning, & Feedback") [👀](#review-jaredpalmer "Reviewed Pull Requests") [⚠️](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/commits?author=jaredpalmer "Tests") | [<img src="https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/109324?v=4" width="100px;"/><br /><sub><b>Ian White</b></sub>](https://www.stardog.io)<br />[💬](#question-eonwhite "Answering Questions") [🐛](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/issues?q=author%3Aeonwhite "Bug reports") [💻](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/commits?author=eonwhite "Code") [📖](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/commits?author=eonwhite "Documentation") [🤔](#ideas-eonwhite "Ideas, Planning, & Feedback") [👀](#review-eonwhite "Reviewed Pull Requests") | [<img src="https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/829963?v=4" width="100px;"/><br /><sub><b>Andrej Badin</b></sub>](http://andrejbadin.com)<br />[💬](#question-Andreyco "Answering Questions") [🐛](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/issues?q=author%3AAndreyco "Bug reports") [📖](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/commits?author=Andreyco "Documentation") | [<img src="https://avatars2.githubusercontent.com/u/91115?v=4" width="100px;"/><br /><sub><b>Adam Howard</b></sub>](http://adz.co.de)<br />[💬](#question-skattyadz "Answering Questions") [🐛](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/issues?q=author%3Askattyadz "Bug reports") [🤔](#ideas-skattyadz "Ideas, Planning, & Feedback") [👀](#review-skattyadz "Reviewed Pull Requests") | [<img src="https://avatars1.githubusercontent.com/u/6711845?v=4" width="100px;"/><br /><sub><b>Vlad Shcherbin</b></sub>](https://github.com/VladShcherbin)<br />[💬](#question-VladShcherbin "Answering Questions") [🐛](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/issues?q=author%3AVladShcherbin "Bug reports") [🤔](#ideas-VladShcherbin "Ideas, Planning, & Feedback") | [<img src="https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/u/383212?v=4" width="100px;"/><br /><sub><b>Brikou CARRE</b></sub>](https://github.com/brikou)<br />[🐛](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/issues?q=author%3Abrikou "Bug reports") [📖](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/commits?author=brikou "Documentation") | [<img src="https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/5314713?v=4" width="100px;"/><br /><sub><b>Sam Kvale</b></sub>](http://skvale.github.io)<br />[🐛](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/issues?q=author%3Askvale "Bug reports") [💻](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/commits?author=skvale "Code") [⚠️](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/commits?author=skvale "Tests") |
| :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| [<img src="https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/13765558?v=4" width="100px;"/><br /><sub><b>Jon Tansey</b></sub>](http://jon.tansey.info)<br />[🐛](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/issues?q=author%3Ajontansey "Bug reports") [💻](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/commits?author=jontansey "Code") | [<img src="https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/6819171?v=4" width="100px;"/><br /><sub><b>Tyler Martinez</b></sub>](http://slightlytyler.com)<br />[🐛](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/issues?q=author%3Aslightlytyler "Bug reports") [📖](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/commits?author=slightlytyler "Documentation") | [<img src="https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/1285032?v=4" width="100px;"/><br /><sub><b>Tobias Lohse</b></sub>](http://MrLoh.se)<br />[🐛](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/issues?q=author%3AMrLoh "Bug reports") [💻](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/commits?author=MrLoh "Code") |

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:END -->

This project follows the
[all-contributors](https://github.com/kentcdodds/all-contributors)
specification. Contributions of any kind welcome!

## Related

- [TSDX](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/tsdx) - Zero-config CLI for TypeScript used by this repo. (Formik's Rollup configuration as a CLI)

---

[Apache 2.0 License.](https://github.com/jaredpalmer/formik/blob/master/LICENSE)
